# GE2

GE2/Game Engine 2/Gettoo is a game engine that I'm working on for learning purposes. The aim is to become more familiar with the essential components of a game engine, how they work together, and how they can be developed in a scalable way.

This file is a high level summary of the folder layout and different projects - more detailed info on each project will be provided in additional documentation files.

### Content

[Project Layout](#project-layout)
 [Assets](#assets)
 [Code](#code)
 [Thirdparty](#thirdparty)
 [Sharpmake](#sharpmake)
 [Generated](#generated)
[Third party Libraries and Projects](#third-party-libraries-and-projects)
 [Glad](#glad)
 [Glm](#glm)
 [ImGui](#imgui)
 [SFML](#sfml)
 [stb_image](#stb_image)
[Engine Projects](#engine-projects)
 [AssetManager](#assetmanager)
 [Global](#global)
 [Graphics](#graphics)
 [Platform](#platform)
[Other Projects](#other-projects)
 [Editor](#editor)
 [Launch](#launch)

## Project layout

### Assets

For GE2, an Asset is any file that corresponds to content that can be used by the game engine, for example images and shaders. It also refers to custom file types such as scenes and prefabs. The "Assets" direcotry is the root directory for all assets.

When running GE2 from visual studio assets will be loaded from this folder. It's also possible to run the GE2 exe directly with the assets directory next to it - this is typically how a "released game" would be run.

### Code

Just like it sounds, this directory contains all the .h and .cpp files for the various projects in GE2 (not including third party projects). It is split into subdirectories that share the exact name of projects in the solution. This is also the location for any other files that must go into the projects, but up to this point I haven't had any need for non-code files to be added to the solution.

### Thirdparty

All third party libraries are contained within subdirectories of this directory.  Some of those libraries consist of source and header files, while others consist of header files and .lib/.dll files. Dll files are automatically copied to the build output folder when building the engine.

### Sharpmake

Sharpmake is an open source tool built by Ubisoft which is used to generate visual studio project and solution files via C# scripts. It's very useful for cleanly defining the settings and dependencies for a large number of projects. This may be similar to other tools such as CMake, although admittedly I haven't used CMake so I can't say for certain! (one day I'll resolve this). You can find more on sharpmake here: https://github.com/ubisoft/Sharpmake

The sharpmake folder is split into the sharpmake application (containing exe and dll files which don't need to be touched) and Scripts folders. The scripts folder contains a C# solution that defines all the properties and dependencies of the C++ solution used to build GE2 - I won't be documenting how this works for the time being unless I find more time or it grows more complicated.

Sharpmake is run using the run.bat file in the GE2 root directory. Once that is done, the generated solution can be opened using open.bat.

### Generated

The generated folder is the root directory of ALL temporary files in GE2. It contains the solution and projects generated by sharpmake, and the intermediate and final outputs of the C++ compiler. By design, no temporary files exist outside this folder (except pesky .vs files), and no permanent files exist inside it - as such you can reset the whole system to a blank slate simply by deleting this folder. This is useful for build determinism.

Generally, I try to avoid having to dig through the Generated folder itself. I use .bat files to open the solution from the GE2 root directory.

## Third party Libraries and Projects

Due to the learning aims of this project I generally want to implement as many features as I can by myself. There is some functionality however which is handed off to third party libraries in the interest of actually finishing the project one day. Over time, some of these may be replaced by my own solutions.

### Glad

An OpenGL loading library, this loads pointers to OpenGL interface functions for graphics implementation. Acquired from https://glad.dav1d.de/

### Glm

A mathematics library for graphics software, which provides functionality regarding tranform matrices etc. Currently GE2 doesn't use this heavily, and it may be phased out in favour of doing the maths myself. Acquired from https://github.com/g-truc/glm

### ImGui

ImGui is an _Immediate Mode GUI_, providing simple UI for debug or development purposes. In GE2 this is intended to be used for the editor and for debugging. Acquired from https://github.com/ocornut/imgui

ImGui requires that you create a renderer backend and a platform backend to help it hook into your native graphics and input - in GE2 these are defined in the _Platform_ project.

### SFML

SFML is the "Simple Fast Multimedia Library", and is split into 5 modules:
1. System
2. Window
3. Graphics
4. Audio
5. Network

In GE2, graphics are implemented via OpenGL and networking isn't currently within scope. Thus we mainly rely on the window and Audio modules (audio will come in the future). Acquired from https://www.sfml-dev.org/

### stb_image

A single header library which helps to load image files of various types - currently used to load .png and .jpg files for textures. Acquired from https://github.com/nothings/stb

## Engine Projects

This section covers projects which handle core features of the engine such as window management, graphics, physics and entities.

### AssetManager



### Global



### Graphics



### Platform



## Other Projects

I may come up with a better name for this section, but for now it covers whatever projects are left.

### Editor



### Launch

